Introduction:
Hi. I am Rishav Mishra. I have overall of 4 years of experience of as java devloper. During this course, I have worked mainly on three projects. First, I have worked while being in cognizant. It was a property and ownership search engine. It was a web application. Then, for opus, i have built a java based backend tool which is used to create billing for the customer of our client for using their network and update the billing items in the billing table. Currently, I am working on creating a RestFul web service from scratch which was a fraud assessment service. This application further uses a web service which is CDM. Apart from technology, I have good leadership skills and have been known for leading the things whereever i get opportunity. 

Company 1: Cognizant Technology Solution
Project 1.1: RealQuest
Brief Introduction - The project i worked on was property and ownership search engine. We used to maintain, enhance and keep the application secure for our client which was a US based company Corelogic with over 1.4 billion of revenue noted for a fiscal year. The motive of this application is to guide the customers towards the sound decisions of buying a property or not by providing the data they are looking in the most convenient way. 
Function Description - Functionality wise, this application has option of generating different reports which contain different type of data like transaction history of a data, details on profile of the property, surrounding amenities, ownership and owners information, important documents as well as images of the property. A user can look for any particular property or can gives custom search for looking any unknown property. This application supports multiple search options to make experience. We also have the storing and retrieving the stored reports.
Technical Description with architectural diagram
1.	**draw diagram and describe**
The architecture of the project is we had 4 production server which are 2 for legacy code and 2 for new code base. Each server has two instances. The application has a VIP (virtual IP) i.e. a web server in front. Then, the request goes to any of the server passing through the load balancer. 
Once the request hits the web server, a static home page was returned and user suppose to log in the application for using its functionality. Upon successful authentication a user session is created. Then, user can search for a property. For searching a property user has to fill a form and a standard POST request is sent to the server with the form data. @@@Does the form data goes as request parameter or request body? As the request is accepted on the server side. We create a java object which gets all the necessary details for sending REST request to a particular service. Which service to call and which method to use was all depended on the report user has searched the property for. Once the java object is created then it was manually marshaled to XML or JSON request. We have used JAXB and Jackson for marshalling and unmarshalling. Once we receive the response of the web service we convert in into report java object. Then, that java object was used to fill the data in the report UI. A string buffer was built and from header to report footer was taken in the string buffer and printed. 
I have worked a lot on security remediation for this project. We used to have three third party scan engines like veracode, Qualys and Foundstone. I have worked majorly on veracode as that needs a lot of code change while Qualys and Foundstone issues were majorly related to server configuration changes. 
The top 5 issues that I remember have worked on are below:
1.	Cross site scripting issues
2.	Javascript issues
3.	SQL Injections
4.	Information leakage
5.	Encapsulation 
Once done with the architecture description then ask interviewer to explain about the XML requests n all.
a.	We are consumers of web services. Consumers and provider of application has a contract set in XSD files. Now, once the contract is ready then we can create WSDL and include XSD with it or we can simple make use of XSD for converting to the java objects that will be used as input and output objects while creating web services. We make use of XSD. Now, tell what is XSD and how do we get XML request document?  We have XSD files for the other applications where we send the XML request. These XSD files tell use the structure of the XML document that we sent as a request. Actually, XSD which is the XML schema definition document. In the XSD document, we have different tags like schema, element tags etc. <xs: schema>, <xs: element>. Now, I guess then we create an XML request using XSD and Jaxb. How? Actually, first we will create java classes using XSD and then we can create different XML request using the classes that we have created and JaxB. 
b.	XML request document is prepared, then what? tell about the role of jaxB and complete programming that is needed.  Now, we have prepared the XML document. Also, if the XML request document is the thing that we send then what is the need to create the java object through unmarshalling?
Some Code for Help!
String uri =
    "http://localhost:8080/CustomerService/rest/customers/1";
URL url = new URL(uri);
HttpURLConnection connection =
    (HttpURLConnection) url.openConnection();
connection.setRequestMethod("GET");
connection.setRequestProperty("Accept", "application/xml");

JAXBContext jc = JAXBContext.newInstance(Customer.class);
InputStream xml = connection.getInputStream();
Customer customer =
    (Customer) jc.createUnmarshaller().unmarshal(xml);

connection.disconnect();

Software and tools description 
Intellij as IDE, sql developer, putty for unix, SVn for version control, maven for dependency management and list other softwares as well. 
My Role –
We follow agile and scrum. So,all the scrum ceremonies we follow. I have worked on backlogs related to enhancement where we added new report options. After few sprints, the entire team got divided from three. Maintenance, merge and security remediation. I was placed in security remediation and still working in the same team. In security remediation, we need to keep the security flaws minimized and hopefully eliminate them. There is something called veracode applicaitob whjich is used for scanning the application and generating a report with the flaw. When this security remediation team was formed the score was 55 while now it is 86 and progressing. Then describe different flaws like [describe top five security threats, check in internet]. A team of about 15 members works on this application. 

Company 2: Infosys 
Project 2.1: SNOW
I have worked very briefly on Service Now tool which was a ticketing tool for the client PWC. We used to work as admin and generally has to resolves tickets. That’s why I quite Infosys in 6months.

Company 3: Opus Consulting Solutions
Project 3.1: Java Backend Billing Tool
This tool is used to create billing item and update in the billing DB. This job is used to start through netbatch job which runs every month. The netbatch job used to look for a script file. Through script file the job triggers actually. Then, it looks for the data in table and create object of Vos to be processed. Then, different billing items get created which are @@@Comp=plete this.   

Project 3.2: FAS i.e. Fraud Assessment Service
Project X
This application is fraud assessment application. It send a REST web service request to CDM (@RaY: mention the full form). CDM returns accepted, rejected or review status as response of the web service request sent. The response is forwarded to the service which has sent the request originally. Methodology: Agile.
Technology Stack:
This application uses spring boot which is a rapid application development framework. We have a usual SpringBoot Class consisting of the main method. All the configurations are taken care in application.properies (name need correction is guess!) file.
The database used is Casandra. Web service written in RESTful way while both, SOAP and REST, are consumed in the project.

 
Architecture Flow: (High Level)
The web service we created is Fraud Assessment Service. Our system is hit by some internal service of client. We first validate the input upon receiving the request from the consumer. @Ranjana, what kind of request coming (business-wise)? Once the input is validated, then we create a new request using the data we received from the incoming request and with the data in the Cassandra for CDM i.e. Credit decision manager. @What is the role of CDM? Once we create a request using request and Cassandra data and sends it to CDM then we receive whether this transaction is passed, failed or under review. Based on the response we received from the system, we will send the response back to the consumer who sent the request to FAS. @Ranjana So, what FAS has resolved for in its consumers? 

Code Flow (Class wise):
The request will hit FAController.java which is the only controller. A response instance will be created to be returned as response and is initialized by calling a service class method. The service class method will in term create a request object that supposed to be sent to the CDM. @How exactly the incoming request data is parsed, used and added to request object to be sent to CDM? Once the all the needed data from the incoming request is added to the CDM request object then an API will be called which is nothing but a spring rest client for consumer a micro service which will get all the data from Cassandra db. @Ranjana, why do you thing Cassandra db was used? Why not an sql based db was used and why not the data was pulled from the sql db like we do normally? RestTemplate, HttpEntity are some common classes used to build the client. After the Cassandra data is returned by the micro service as java object then that java object attribute data was used to complete the request for CDM. CDM sends the response once we gets a correctly formatted response. CDM is SOAP based web service thus it is consumed using a stub client generated through its WSDL. @Ranjana, How do we create stub for SOAP web service using WSDL? Based on the response returned by CDM, the service class returns a response object to FAControlle.java. This is then returned to consumer of FAS. @Ranjana, What kind of response is sent by the CDM? What is the processing logic for constructing final response on the basis of CDM response? 
@Ranjana, Provide at least two examples and what classes or mechanism used to validate input. @Ranjana, what data do we receive from the request and what data do we fetch from Cassandra? @Ranjana, Never share the code as is. 
Doubts (@Ranjana)
Is our project web service or micro service?




